_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a second-year Masters (M2) student
studying the [Parisian Master of Research in Computer Science (MPRI)][mpri]
at [*École Polytechnique*][x].
My research interests lie in logic, verified proofs,
and proof assistants (such as [Coq][coq]).

In my Masters Year 1 internship,
I worked towards formalising the guard checker of Coq
with [Yannick Forster](https://yforster.de/)
in the [Cambium](https://cambium.inria.fr/) research team in Inria Paris.
In my [report](files/240827-report.pdf),
I documented the guard checker with examples and explanations.
The full [implementation](https://github.com/inria-cambium/m1-tan)
is freely accessible online.

Previously, I obtained my Bachelor's Degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science
at the [National University of Singapore][nus].
I wrote my [thesis](#theses) on
the formalization of Coq Modules in the [MetaCoq](https://metacoq.github.io/) project,
co-supervised by [Nicolas Tabareau](https://tabareau.fr),
[Martin Henz](https://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~henz/),
and [Yue Yang](https://discovery.nus.edu.sg/463-yue-yang).
I was also part of the [University Scholars Programme](https://www.usp.nus.edu.sg/),
the honors college of [NUS][nus].

[coq]: https://coq.inria.fr/
[x]: https://www.polytechnique.edu/
[nus]: https://www.nus.edu.sg/
[mpri]: https://wikimpri.dptinfo.ens-cachan.fr/doku.php

# News
- 25 October 2024: My [Masters 1 Project/Thesis](#theses) received an Honourable Mention
  (_"Mention de Félicitations"_) from École Polytechnique!
- 15-21 September 2024: I attended the
  [Proof and Computation Autumn School 2024](https://www.mathematik.uni-muenchen.de/~schwicht/pc24.php),
  at Fischbachau, Germany.
- 14 September 2024: I will be presenting (remotely) at the [Coq Workshop 2024](https://coq-workshop.gitlab.io/2024/)
  about my M1 internship project on the Guard Checker of Coq.
  It is affiliated with [ITP 2024](https://www.viam.science.tsu.ge/itp2024/)
  at Tbilisi, Georgia.
- 27 August 2024: I successfully defended my Masters 1 internship,
  in which I implemented the Guard Checker of Coq in MetaCoq
  and documented its behaviour!
  Here are the [code](https://github.com/inria-cambium/m1-tan),
  [report](files/240827-report.pdf),
  and [slides](files/240827-slides.pdf).
<!-- - 10-14 June 2024: I am attending [TYPES 2024](https://types2024.itu.dk/) in Copenhagen, Denmark. -->
<!-- - 3 June 2024: I gave a talk on the guard checker of Coq
  at the [RECIPROG](https://www.irif.fr/reciprog/workshop-guarded-june24) workshop in Nantes, France. -->
<!-- - 1 May 2024: I started doing an M1 internship with Yannick Forster
  in the [Cambium](https://cambium.inria.fr/) team, in Inria Paris.
  We will be working towards a formalisation of the Guard Checker of Coq. -->
<!-- - In September 2023, I started my [Masters in the Parisian Master of Research
  in Computer Science (MPRI)][mpri], at the [*École Polytechnique*][x]. -->
<!-- - In May 2023, I have graduated from the National University of Singapore (NUS)!
  I obtained two Bachelor's degrees: one in Mathematics, and another in Computer
  Science. -->

# Talks
- [Towards Formalizing the Guard Condition of Coq](files/240914-coqws-slides.pdf), 24 September 2024\
  Talk at Coq Workshop 2024.\
  Joint work with Yannick Forster.
- [Towards Formalizing the Guard Condition of Coq](files/240603-reciprog-slides.pdf), 3 June 2024\
  Invited talk at Workshop on the guard condition of Coq, RECIPROG.\
  Joint work with Yannick Forster.

# Theses
- **Towards Formalising the Guard Checker of Coq**\
  Masters Year 1 Thesis, École Polytechnique, 2024.\
  Honourable Mention (_"Mention de Félicitations"_) by École Polytechnique on L3/M1 Theses.\
  [Report](files/240827-report.pdf), [Slides](files/240827-slides.pdf), [Code](https://github.com/inria-cambium/m1-tan).

- **Formalizing Coq Modules in the MetaCoq Project**\
  Bachelor's Thesis, National University of Singapore, 2023.\
  [Report](files/XFC4101.Final.Report.pdf),
  [Slides](files/XFC4101.Final.Presentation.pdf),
  [Code](https://github.com/SwampertX/metacoq/tree/yeejian-thesis).


# Projects and Reports

- [Formalizing Dependent Types in Agda](files/m1-project-report.pdf) (~equivalent to 1-month internship)\
  Supervised by [Ambrus Kaposi](https://akaposi.github.io).
  <!-- [Report](files/m1-project-report.pdf) -->

# Publications
- [A Stepper for a Functional JavaScript
   Sublanguage](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3484272.3484968).\
   Joint work with Martin Henz, Thomas Tan, Zachary Chua, Peter Jung, Xinyi Zhang,
   and Jingjing Zhao, 2021.\
   Proceedings
   of the 2021 ACM SIGPLAN International Symposium on SPLASH-E, October 2021, pp. 71–81.


# CV
- 2023: B.Comp (Hons) Computer Science (Distinction), National University of Singapore.\
  Focus area: Algorithms and Theory

- 2023: B.Sc (Hons) Mathematics with (Highest Distinction), National University of Singapore.\
  Focus areas: Logic, Abstract Algebra

Click [here](files/cv.pdf) for a full CV.

Commit message:

update m2 internship news and rocq

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a second-year Masters (M2) student
studying the [Parisian Master of Research in Computer Science (MPRI)][mpri]
at [*École Polytechnique*][x].
My research interests lie in logic, verified proofs,
and proof assistants (such as [Rocq][rocq]).

In my Masters Year 1 internship,
I worked towards formalising the guard checker of Rocq
with [Yannick Forster](https://yforster.de/)
in the [Cambium](https://cambium.inria.fr/) research team in Inria Paris.
In my [report](files/240827-report.pdf),
I documented the guard checker with examples and explanations.
The full [implementation](https://github.com/inria-cambium/m1-tan)
is freely accessible online.

Previously, I obtained my Bachelor's Degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science
at the [National University of Singapore][nus].
I wrote my [thesis](#theses) on
the formalization of Rocq Modules in the [MetaRocq](https://metarocq.github.io/) project,
co-supervised by [Nicolas Tabareau](https://tabareau.fr),
[Martin Henz](https://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~henz/),
and [Yue Yang](https://discovery.nus.edu.sg/463-yue-yang).
I was also part of the [University Scholars Programme](https://www.usp.nus.edu.sg/),
the honors college of [NUS][nus].

[rocq]: https://rocq-prover.org
[x]: https://www.polytechnique.edu/
[nus]: https://www.nus.edu.sg/
[mpri]: https://wikimpri.dptinfo.ens-cachan.fr/doku.php

# News
- 1 April 2025: I am starting my Masters Year 2 (M2) internship at KU Leuven with
  [Andreas Nuyts](https://anuyts.github.io/) and
  [Dominique Devriese](https://distrinet.cs.kuleuven.be/people/DominiqueDevriese),
  working on implementing new type theory primitives in the Agda proof assistant.
- 25 October 2024: My [Masters 1 Project/Thesis](#theses) received an Honourable Mention
  (_"Mention de Félicitations"_) from École Polytechnique!
- 15-21 September 2024: I attended the
  [Proof and Computation Autumn School 2024](https://www.mathematik.uni-muenchen.de/~schwicht/pc24.php),
  at Fischbachau, Germany.
- 14 September 2024: I will be presenting (remotely) at the [Coq Workshop 2024](https://coq-workshop.gitlab.io/2024/)
  about my M1 internship project on the Guard Checker of Rocq.
  It is affiliated with [ITP 2024](https://www.viam.science.tsu.ge/itp2024/)
  at Tbilisi, Georgia.
- 27 August 2024: I successfully defended my Masters 1 internship,
  in which I implemented the Guard Checker of Rocq in MetaRocq
  and documented its behaviour!
  Here are the [code](https://github.com/inria-cambium/m1-tan),
  [report](files/240827-report.pdf),
  and [slides](files/240827-slides.pdf).
<!-- - 10-14 June 2024: I am attending [TYPES 2024](https://types2024.itu.dk/) in Copenhagen, Denmark. -->
<!-- - 3 June 2024: I gave a talk on the guard checker of Coq
  at the [RECIPROG](https://www.irif.fr/reciprog/workshop-guarded-june24) workshop in Nantes, France. -->
<!-- - 1 May 2024: I started doing an M1 internship with Yannick Forster
  in the [Cambium](https://cambium.inria.fr/) team, in Inria Paris.
  We will be working towards a formalisation of the Guard Checker of Coq. -->
<!-- - In September 2023, I started my [Masters in the Parisian Master of Research
  in Computer Science (MPRI)][mpri], at the [*École Polytechnique*][x]. -->
<!-- - In May 2023, I have graduated from the National University of Singapore (NUS)!
  I obtained two Bachelor's degrees: one in Mathematics, and another in Computer
  Science. -->

# Talks
- [Towards Formalizing the Guard Condition of Rocq](files/240914-coqws-slides.pdf), 24 September 2024\
  Talk at Coq Workshop 2024.\
  Joint work with Yannick Forster.
- [Towards Formalizing the Guard Condition of Rocq](files/240603-reciprog-slides.pdf), 3 June 2024\
  Invited talk at Workshop on the guard condition of Coq, RECIPROG.\
  Joint work with Yannick Forster.

# Theses
- **Towards Formalising the Guard Checker of Rocq**\
  Masters Year 1 Thesis, École Polytechnique, 2024.\
  Honourable Mention (_"Mention de Félicitations"_) by École Polytechnique on L3/M1 Theses.\
  [Report](files/240827-report.pdf), [Slides](files/240827-slides.pdf), [Code](https://github.com/inria-cambium/m1-tan).

- **Formalizing Rocq Modules in the MetaCoq Project**\
  Bachelor's Thesis, National University of Singapore, 2023.\
  [Report](files/XFC4101.Final.Report.pdf),
  [Slides](files/XFC4101.Final.Presentation.pdf),
  [Code](https://github.com/SwampertX/metacoq/tree/yeejian-thesis).


# Projects and Reports

- [Formalizing Dependent Types in Agda](files/m1-project-report.pdf) (~equivalent to 1-month internship)\
  Supervised by [Ambrus Kaposi](https://akaposi.github.io).
  <!-- [Report](files/m1-project-report.pdf) -->

# Publications
- [A Stepper for a Functional JavaScript
   Sublanguage](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3484272.3484968).\
   Joint work with Martin Henz, Thomas Tan, Zachary Chua, Peter Jung, Xinyi Zhang,
   and Jingjing Zhao, 2021.\
   Proceedings
   of the 2021 ACM SIGPLAN International Symposium on SPLASH-E, October 2021, pp. 71–81.


# CV
- 2023: B.Comp (Hons) Computer Science (Distinction), National University of Singapore.\
  Focus area: Algorithms and Theory

- 2023: B.Sc (Hons) Mathematics with (Highest Distinction), National University of Singapore.\
  Focus areas: Logic, Abstract Algebra

Click [here](files/cv.pdf) for a full CV.
